# kickstarter-analysis
An Analysis of Kickstarter Campaigns 
This is an analysis to guide data driven decisions on campaign goalsetting.
### Challenge
The new analysis provides a tabular and visual presentation of the data based on categorization of the goal amount into several distinct groups of increased goal amounts.  Additionally, there is a pivot table and visualization that shows the association between month of launch date and the number of successful, failed and canceled Kickstarter projects.  This analysis provides the recipient with two specific factors that may affect the project outcome--the dollar amount proposed as a goal and the month of the year when the campaign is launched.  Both factors are important considerations driving the project director's decisions on when to embark on a kickstarter project and how much to aim for in terms of a budget.
The first visualization is a line graph showing categories of goal amounts ranging from under $1,000 to $50,000 and higher comparing the percentage of successful, failed and cancelled campaigns to the amount of the goal.  The x-axis shows the dollar categories and y-axis shows the percentage of campaigns falling into each of the aforementioned outcomes. The graph shows that there were no cancellations, thus a flat line shows up.
The second visualization is a line graph depicting the month of the year and the number of successful, failed and cancelled campaigns.  The month is on the x-axis and the number along the y-axis for each outcome.
#### Method
The data were analyzed using Excel version 2016 to render pivot tables, sub-analyses (in the larger file) and visualizations.  The data analysis included the use of the countifs function to categorize data from the Kickstarter main data, which greatly streamlined the analysis and allowed for a more parsimonious subset of the data to be utilized for the visualizations.  Given the voluminous amount of data, the countifs function is a gamechanger when analyzing large datasets and recoding or categorizing continuous level data, such as goal amount, into compact categories for a clean visualization.  Pivot tables and line graphs rounded off the analysis.  The use of the timestamp conversion of the data also made for a clean and easy way to use months in the axis of the visualization dealing with month of campaign and outcome.
##### Limitations
One of the shortcomings of the data analysis comparing the categorization of the goal amount and outcome categories was the exclusion of the "live" category from the analysis.  This is noted in the Outcomes by Goal amount tab of the Kickstarter workbook.  While there is data on the "live" category, there were not too many of the entries that fell into this category and thus, omission of the "live" category may not heavily affect our interpretation of the relationship between outcome and goal amount.  Future analyses of the data should consider the live category, but this may require additional data collection over more time and perhaps different types of campaigns.  In presenting this data to our character, Louise, it does, however, bear mentioning.

Another limitation was imposed by the parameters of the analysis; it would have been great to look at other types of campaigns, such as those for documentaries, film, and other genres.  While one can assume that Louise was primarily interested in theatre, one can cull insights from comparison of other genres and looking at the same factors,i.e., goal amount and month of campaign kickstart.  Additionally, if one had the time and tools, doing a content analysis of the text in the blurb might yield insight into the relationship of the "story line" of a play and its ultimate success in achieving its funding goals.  Advertising and marketing rely heavily on the "message" as well as the "medium" when selling a product.
#### Results
The most compelling finding was the relationship between goal amount and campaign outcome.  There is an apparent inverse association in the data--higher goal amounts tend to yield lower likelihood of success.  While we do not have the tools or the modeling here to posit a causal relationship, the analyst would conclude that higher goal amounts lead to a lower chance of success.  I would caution, however, that the data for success is not simple and the line does not show a simple linear relationship between goal amount and the likelihood of success.  While the highest likelihood of success shows up for the lower campaign amounts, there is a peak around 35K-45K goals, then a precipitous dip for the next highest category of 45K-50K.  The volatility in the line suggests that other, unmeasured factors are in play, which are not considered in the analysis.  It would be interesting to see a comparison including country, if enough data were available for other countries.  Also, I would like to see the results for other genres--does the same relationship hold up for documentaries, film, books, etc.?

The next finding is that late spring and summer months tend to be associated with campaign success.  Along with that finding, is the interesting pattern that shows the greatest month by month variation for successful campaigns and the somewhat smoother line for failed shows that month does not appear to be such a salient factor in failed campaigns.  My interpretation would be: if you want a successful campaign, launch it in May, and avoid the winter months.  Again, it would be interesting to see if the same relationship holds for other genres.  Perhaps, one should consider the venue--if theater is more popular in the warmer spring and summer months, because it is held in an outdoor setting, this could account for the month variation.  Venue is another variable to be considered along with genre.

In conclusion, more modest funding goals, coupled with May-June launches, appear to increase the likelihood of campaign success.

